Nearly twenty years after the Black Mesa Incident the G-Man wakes Gordon Freeman and inserts him 
(seemingly, without any goals) into a train arriving in City 17, 
a city under control of the Combine Empire located somewhere in Eastern Europe.


Nearly twenty years after the Black Mesa Incident the G-Man wakes Gordon Freeman and inserts him (seemingly, without any goals) into 
a train arriving in City 17, a city under control of the Combine Empire located somewhere in Eastern Europe.
After leaving the train, Gordon and other passengers are welcomed by a broadcast by Dr. Wallace Breen, former administrator of
Black Mesa, who is now Earth's administrator. Continuing on his way, Gordon meets armed Civil Protection officers policing the train station and its surroundings. 
One of them separates him from the rest of the arriving citizens and directs him into a small interrogation room before revealing himself to be former 
Black Mesa security guard Barney Calhoun, operating undercover for the Resistance.

Alyx, daughter of Eli Vance, a former Black Mesa employee now leading the Resistance against the Combine, 
takes Gordon to Dr. Kleiner's lab, where he is given an H.E.V. Suit and instructed to be teleported to Black Mesa 
East with Alyx where he will be able to work alongside other scientists.


After teleporting Alyx, Gordon is next, but the interruption from Kleiner's pet headcrab, Lamarr, causes a malfunction in the teleporter leading Gordon to 
Dr. Breen's office, who recognizes him as a threat and puts the Combine forces on alert.

Following the failed teleport sequence, Gordon's only option is to go on foot through the old Canals, with Civil Protection officers in 
hot pursuit. Before starting his journey, Gordon is given a Crowbar by Barney.

With the Crowbar Gordon is able to disarm two Civil Protection officers who had cornered a couple of Citizens, 
obtaining in this way his first firearm, the USP Match. Being armed allows Gordon to defeat all Civil Protection Units dispatched to the area before reaching Station 12, 
one of the many stations set up by the Underground Railroad, a network helping refugees escape City 17.


Most of these Stations and outposts are already under attack by the time Gordon arrives; generally filled with Manhacks or being bombarded with Headcrab Shells.
Eventually, Gordon reaches Station 6 (now under attack by Headcrabs); where he receives the Airboat, a makeshift vessel with an aircraft-type 
propeller, to help him traverse the toxic system of canals and get to Black Mesa East quick and safely.
